---
layout: post
title: Taxonomy
description: an exploration of all the terms used in physics-based machine learning
giscus_comments: false
date: 2023-03-27
tags: survey
related_posts: false
---

Diving into physics-based machine learning can be intimidating at first. Here, we report all the terms and definitions which could be useful to understand and categorize research activities in the topic.

**IVP.** The *Initial Value Problem* (IVP) consists in predicting the solution at some spatio-temporal position $$(x,t)$$ given the initial solution at $$t=0$$.

**Physics-Informed.** A model is said to be *Physics-Informed* when the differential equation is known and used to train the model.

**Neural-FEM.** The *Neural Finite-Element-Method* is a class of methods where the solution function of the differential equation is parametrized by a neural network. It is mesh-independent and requires the differential equation to be known (see physics-informed). Typical examples are PINNs.

**Method of characteristics.** The *Method of characteristics* is a technique for solving partial differential equations (PDEs) where the PDE is rewritten as a family of ordinary differential equations.

**Cauchy problem.** Given a differentiable semi-convex function $F\colon\mathbb{R}^d\to\mathbb{R}$ and a point $x_0\in\mathbb{R}^d$, the Cauchy problem amounts in finding the function $x$ such that
$$\begin{cases} \frac{\mathrm{d}x(t)}{\mathrm{d}t} &= - \nabla F(x(t))\quad\text{for}\;t>0, \\ x(0) &= x_0.\end{cases}$$
It has a unique solution if $\nabla F$ is Lipschitz continuous.
Note that the differentiability is not essential.
